+++
date = "2016-04-030T16:05:00-05:00"
draft = false
title = "How to Invest in Your Future"

+++

# Why to Invest

I know what you're thinking: "Ugh, financial anything is soooooo boring....", but fear not, this is NOT about investing money for your future (as much as that is VASTLY important), this is about investing in yourself in order to have a better future. Sorry to those who are in finances; I'm sure you were the few people excited about what could have been but I just do not have the time, patience, interest (AWWWWWWW YEAAAAAHHHHHH) or experience to talk about investing money. For that, you probably shouldn't be reading my personal blog, and should read I dunno, Forbes? Or something?

Anyways...this first section is about _why_ you should invest in yourself. As I have previously mentioned, I am an avid fan of many (but not all) of the words within Darren Hardy's book "The Compound Effect". The general idea is that basically the more you focus your time, effort and energy into something, the greater the reward given enough time. The decisions that you make and the things that you do matter and build overtime, snowballing out of control until you are either wildly successful in some area, or a habit has organically grown into a cancer, mutating and expanding until it ruins your life.

As I was saying, the things that you do build over time. Practice the piano diligently and effectively every day for 10 years? You will be a much more accomplished pianist. Drink two extra beers each day on top of a fatty diet for 5 years? You will have put on a few extra pounds. The onus of proof of course should be on me, but I feel that this is such a common sense idea that I should not have to prove it to you. We as a creature of habit already know what our habits have reaped over the years of our lives. Smoke every day with the same hand? I bet that not only have you developed an issue breathing, you might have a much drier and more aged hand. Play a lot of Heroes of the Storm? You've most likely gotten better over time. It's such a common idea that we have a saying that goes "Practice makes perfect". A saying that goes well with any good habits we may have like eating extra fiber or drinking more water, as well as with any bad habits like putting off a blog post or maybe not reading our homework assignments. In time, we will realize that we have spent far too long without posting about whatever is on our mind that day or that we are 8 weeks into a course having no better idea of what it is about than when we first started.

Basically, why you should invest in yourself is because you already are investing without realizing or thinking about it, and I urge you to take another look at your investment portfolio to ensure that you are happy with your returns.

# Check Your Returns

Every once in a while, whether it is finances (yaaaaaawwwwwwwwwnnnnnn) or your life itself, you need to check your account. In the case of life, you need to take stock of your relationships, your abilities, your career, your finances and your habits. Ask yourself the most important question: are you happy? I'm not saying that you should be mind-numbingly ecstatic all of the time, but with each of those areas, ask yourself if you are happy or if something about them is bothering you. Can you say that your relationships build you up or tear you down? Do you feel that you are performing to the best of your abilities in areas that you care about or are you just coasting by? Do you like where you work, and what your responsibilities are? Do you feel that you have enough money for any emergencies that come your way? Or that you are saving up enough for a house, retirement or that vacation that you want? Lastly, do your habits build toward you being a better version of yourself, the same version of yourself or a worse version of yourself? Uncomfortable? Good, because here's the next truth about becoming aware of your investments: *You might not be investing how you should be*.

# Redirecting Your Investments

Now that you've taken a look at what you have invested in so far, and probably being a bit unhappy about the whole ordeal, I have some good news for you: You can always change anything. At any time. Remember, you should never strive for perfection, but should instead strive for continual improvement. It is the same reason that development shops are moving away from waterfall development models towards agile development models. It is why a lot of manufacturers also implement processes around CI or Continual Improvement. They know that you can never achieve perfection; entropy is a law of the universe. Things will always break down and degrade. Sounds a bit depressing but remember that you can either take it as a negative, or instead face it as a challenge. You only have so long in this world; do you want to spend it wasting time and energy on people, events, companies or widgets about which you do not care? Or do you want to spend your time building yourself and your investments and habits based upon that about which you do care?

How do you redirect your investments? By spending time checking your returns (or tracking what you spend, eat, do, etc.) for a certain amount of time to determine what should change, deciding what you want to attain in life, and then redirecting your time, money and energy into moving towards your goals. Come up with a plan, find a way for you to move toward your new goals and find a way to track it.

A lot of this sounds dry and self-helpy and centered around some American sense of success; however that is not the case. What I want to get across here and what is really important is that *success is measured by how happy you are in life and by what legacy you leave behind*. At the end of your life, you will want to look back on what you have done with a smile on your face, knowing that you made a difference in the world. Does it mean that you have to start some large university, or be the president? Nope; it simply means that you know you changed the world for the better, and are happy with what you have done. Remember, it is your life; you are not bound by other's expectations or actions. *You are in charge of your life*. No one else is. You decide how you react to what other people do to you, you decide how to life your own life. Yes, bad things happen because of others and circumstance; things happen that are not your fault. But I need to stress this again: *You are in charge of your life*. Redirect your investments as you see fit to be as happy as you can be.

# Find Tools that Help You Invest

One of my goals in life is to continue to learn; not just about developing software or developing myself, but also about physics, chemistry, history, mathematics, anything. Life to me is about learning as much as I can and soaking up every bit of fact that I can find, because you never know when you might need it. Yes, that's right, I am a knowledge hoarder. And I am ok with that; to that end, I use Feedly, an app for reading from RSS feeds, Pocket, an app for storing pages for later, and Khan Academy, an app where you can learn pretty much any educational topic for absolutely free, in order to reach my goal. Want to lose weight? There are hundreds of dietary applications out there, like MyFitnessPal or LoseIt. Want to invest more money? There are apps for catching up on stocks or for getting in touch with your broker. Want to paint more often? Find a local art supplies store and by the tools you need in order to paint in your home.

In order to succeed, you need to have the right tools to help you redirect your investments.

Alright, I will leave you with one last reminder, in case you stumble here and there: *You can always continually improve*. Do not kick yourself over a mistake; learn from it, and move on. You will fail here and there, it is an inevitability; however you can use that fuel future success or allow it to cause to stop trying to continually improve. It's your choice. I highly suggest that you stick with the former.

Happy leveling!