+++
date = "2016-04-17T19:16:00-05:00"
draft = false
title = "Overwatch Beta"

+++

# Open Beta Weekend

For those of you who have been following, or may have heard me mention it once or fifteen times, Blizzard is coming out with a little gem of a game called Overwatch. Part battle arena, part shooter, this game has been on my mind for quite some time. Why? Because not only have I fallen in love with Heroes of the Storm, Blizzard's answer to the rise of MOBA's (Multiplayer Online Battle Arena), but I have also loved the cheeky shooters like Borderlands or Conker's or that one South Park shooter for the 64. This is sort of a mixture of all of these things, although without a lot of the South Park humor and more of a mostly family friendly sense of humor. Aside from the killing. But we'll just ignore that, haha.

Alright, so now that you have the overview of the hype I've built for myself, now is the moment where I drop some knowledge on you, totally after any time where it would have been useful to you: this past weekend was the open beta. So, with hype in mind, I set out on an adrenaline infused adventure to wreck it like Ralph, albeit in a far less heart warming manner.

# The Gameplay

The gameplay revolves heavily around combat, of course, with this being a first person shooter oriented combat style. "But Colin, I thought you mentioned something about a battle arena." Oh, I did, and mixed in with the glorious rain of bullets and thunder of gun and rocket-fire, were technological abilities that allowed you to see people through walls, freeze someone in their tracks, explode an area, heal a comrade, or boost their speed and damage. The battle arena shines through with a large number of heroes who each have their own unique abilities, a life total, and an ultimate ability. However, unlike a MOBA, you do not have to unlock any of these abilities (technically). The ultimate unlocks based mostly on how much damage you deal or heal, mixed in with a little bit of time. It is a cooldown system that starts at 0% when you first start the game and fills up until the ability is unlocked. You use it, it resets to 0%, starting the process over. I love it. I don't have to worry about level differential (which would be weird in a shooter), nor do I have to buy an item or wait a certain number of seconds. The downside, of course, is that tanks and defense do not deal much damage or heal much, so they take a bit longer to build up.

Oh, right, roles. So you have four roles: tank, damage, defense and support. Everything in there is what you would expect it to be, if you are used to any sort of RPG or MOBA. Except for defense, this was a new one for me, and I'm not sure what it was, to be honest. In Heroes they have this idea of a Specialist, which is basically a hero that does something more unique than tank, spank or heal. I think that defense is something akin to that, where they just sort of do their own thing, and are a bit general purpose, with a pinch of defensive abilities. All of them have a bit more health, can deal a bit of damage, some can heal as their 'defense' or they can set up walls or something of the like. For me? I stuck with tank and heals, and it was a blast! I deployed a gravity well as Zarya and pulled in enemies so that my team could focus them while they were unable to act. As Mercy, I was switching back and forth from healing and buffing my teammate's damage. To be honest, I think Mercy is my favorite, since I feel she might be the strongest support hero I have ever played, and I have played a LOT of them between all of my various MOBA and RPG benders.

Anyways, what is really great is that the role defines you while allowing you to breathe quite a bit and do a little bit of your own thing here and there. There isn't any idea of talent selection, leveling or item buying, so really, you just have your few abilities to use. However, one of my highlights (the game saves highlights in a reel for you, which is AWESOME), is where as Mercy, I healed a teammate up to full after he took a barrage of bullets, switched to my pistol, and finished off an enemy that was being mostly ignored. There was this sense of pride in being a BAMF healer and working with the team to ensure we all succeeded. That sense was incredible and I feel that in many arenas, that has been missing. Blizzard has nailed it before in Heroes, and I think they've done that again with Overwatch.

Oh, and one last parting thought on gameplay before I move on to my next section: if you die or go back to spawn, you can switch your hero. Feel like you're overwhelmed as a team because no one picked a tank? Boom, suddenly you're Roadhog or Zarya. Or maybe you need a second healer because of all of that damage. Better grab yourself another Mercy. Oh, and they allowed people to play the same hero, which was a bit odd, but hey, when you are all the same hero, it's a pretty comical time!

# The Environments

So I only played on a few of their levels, but from what I saw, I have to say, I am impressed. Of course, these levels would be beautiful, Blizzard has some of the best artists in the industry on their staff, but what got me was the simplicity and fun that each level design brought to the game. While this isn't your two sided amazingness that we came to expect from Bungie (and now 343) for Halo, it was still a great set of maps. Of course, since these maps are entirely objective driven, they sometimes feel more like maps you would play in a special game type or a story mode mission than you would in a standard death match. Yet, even with how driven these maps were, you felt like you had plenty of ways to be strategic. There are ledges and halls and rooms where you can camp or form choke points, and when you have more of a King of the Hill match, you're not just out completely in the open, you have areas where you can take cover and defend your objective. Maps flow, from each team's spawn to the objective point, and the objectives force combat, which definitely keeps up the pace and makes everything feel much more action packed.

Aside from all of that, the entire game is set in a futuristic Earth, where technology has allowed us to do some cool things like...well...destroy your opponents. Alright, I usually prefer my science fiction futures to be more peaceful, but the idea of technology bringing about a feeling of wonderment and magic? I am ALL about that, and I love how this game has taken a narrative usually reserved for magical fantasy kingdoms and has made it more about Earth a short distance in the future (or maybe a long distance. Idk, technology is marching forward ever faster, who can say for sure?). It's really cool to see them wearing little flags of their home countries, and seeing places that feel so familiar, yet are so vastly different from our own world. 

# The Characters

As I have said already, my absolute favorites right now are Zarya, a Russian woman who takes a lot of shit from everyone - not in a defeatest kind of way, but in a "I'm a dire mack truck of a woman who eats your bullets and destroys you" kind of way, which is amazing. Playing as Zarya and then as Mercy, a more angelic and kind woman whom heals those in need, I get a sense of a uniqueness in the characters that shows some depth.

I know some people have heard about the controversy surrounding Traceur (a cheeky British woman who has a good heart and loves to wreak havoc only when necessary) and one of her victory poses where she does an over the shoulder looking pose that was out of character for her. Had Widowmaker, an assassin who uses her weapons, beauty, weapons, movement and weapons all as weapons had this pose (and she does), people might have been a lot less upset. However, people felt this pose made Traceur a bit more one-dimensional as it took away from her being funny and hyper and made her more of an object. Luckily, Blizzard answered back by changing the pose.

Speaking of poses, while you do not have customization in the game, you do have the capability to change your hero's tag line, skin, victory pose and more. For those of you unaware that means you just change their appearance, but not necessarily limited to their skin of course. It could mean suddenly your western hero with his revolver could look like Daryl from the Walking Dead with a crossbow (no, that's not an option in the game, just an example), or it might mean that your angelic healer might now be a demon. You win a handful of these customizations every few games, so you can either play to get stuff or pay to get stuff. Best part? It's only cosmetic, so there is no pay to win mechanic whatsoever.

Anyways, the whole point of that update was for me to say that the team has done a great job to make the characters feel far from usual or one dimensional. Were they perfect? Nope, I mean of course Widowmaker, the sultry assassin, is French, how could she not be? Right? Right?? Come on Blizzard, you could have given her a less cliche background. But for the most part, I have been impressed with the characters and how they fit their roles. I haven't really had a distracting or cringe-worthy moment so far, as I have had with a few games and TV shows and books in the past, so I count that as a win.

# The Bottom Line

All in all, I will be preordering this game. I loved the pacing, the characters, the level design, and the basic premise of the game far too much to be distracted by a few character issues here and there. I felt everything was smooth and didn't experience any bugs in the game. I highly recommend this game.