+++
date = "2016-07-10T18:19:00-05:00"
draft = false
title = "Theme Park Simulation Reviews"

+++

# Happy Fourth!

Hey everyone, let's start this off right -- HAPPY FOURTH OF JULY!! (Yes, I know, I'm a bit late. Meh.) Today I am going to talk to you about one of my all time favorite genres of video games: *Theme Park Simulators*. I don't know why, but for some reason, Rollercoaster Tycoon 1&2 caught my imagination and became a huge time sink for me. I loved coasters in real life, and loved making them in two of the greatest games ever made, in my most humble of opinions. So, if you didn't like RCT, or think roller coasters are lame, then please close this tab right now. I have nothing for you.

For the rest of you, I have some great news - there are two incredible games out there that are really breathing life back into the genre again: Parkitect and Planet Coaster.

# Parkitect

Parkitect is the spiritual successor to RCT 1&2. While it is in 3D, it's simplistic art style and defaulted isometric camera angles will remind you fondly of the years you spent playing the original RCT games. While this game is still in early access, the development team spend a great deal of time and effort on the game, and even provide weekly updates on [their Tumbler Dev Log](devlog.themeparkitect.com). The game already has so much content, and is moddable, through installing mods from Steam or from Nexus. You can even tweak the park save to change the coasters to be a bit more unique. Want a newer RMC style Wooden Coaster? Tweak the save file to have your wooden coaster feature a steel track type, build out your massive hills and loops, and then tweak it again to use the Junior Coaster track. Suddenly you have what you need for an RMC. Hopefully in the future, you won't need to do this, but the fact that the system is flexible enough now to allow such hacking is pretty amazing.

Its controls are fairly similar to RCT. You can switch camera angles, hold Shift to move scenery and rides up and down, you can oppen specific windows based on hot keys; you click a ride and you see how to manage it. You click a shop and can manage it. The coaster builder is fairly similar as well. There are of course improvements, like you can now select any angle of banking that you prefer, rather than a small number of presets. I would say that the coaster builder and management for the most part have a lot of minor UX improvements over RCT that build it into a much better experience over all; it's not like there is one real large part of the UX that makes it better, it is the sum of the parts that make it better. You will feel right at home, while feeling like your home has new granite countertops and freshly painted rooms; maybe a wall has been knocked down in order to ease traffic flow through out the home. I know that so far, this seems underwhelming, but trust me, it's not the UX that makes the game exciting.

It's the fact that the developers are actively involved within the community, that some scenery objects ignore collision, and that many things can easily be painted using the paint tool. It's that there are already a lot of mods, and that you can save off your favorite bits of your park as a blueprint that you can share with others, or even reuse yourself. It's that finally, RCT 1&2 have a successor that is an improvement to their specific take on the genre, and that you will find it not only nostalgic, but far more enjoyable than it was. It may require some work, as it is in early access, but hey, just head over to [their reddit](www.reddit.com/r/themeparkitect) in order to give them feature suggestions and report issues. Trust me, this game will only get better and it is already one of the most fully featured early access games that I have played in a long time.

# Planet Coaster

Alright, so this one is in Alpha as well...apparently all of the coaster games right now are in Alpha (including RCT World...but TRUST ME, that is NOT the game you want...). ANYWAYS, Planet Coaster is more of the spiritual successor to RCT 3. It is in full 3D, with a camera that takes getting used to (or, rather, a camera that requires a fully working mouse...now that I have one, the camera is great!). This game is going for an amazingly flexible experience, with almost no scenery objects offering any sort of collision what so ever. What this means is that you can move these pieces on 3 axes, and then position them in such a way that you can mold and shape incredible objects from even a limited number of pieces! The only themes right now are like generic and pirate themed, and yet somehow, people have made Japanese gardens and pagodas, roman manors and temples, the colliseum, a star destroyer, steam punk mining coasters and so much more! The problem with that, is that you use a LOT of pieces and they still haven't fully tweaked or optimized everything, so it can bog the game down a bit. They are working on it. But I have to say, HOLY CRAP! Some of the things that Silvarret has made on his [youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/Silvarret) are simply amazing! He also made some Parkitect stuff, so good tie in for both, haha. Honestly, if you want to see the capabilities of each game, watch his channel.

Anyways, the controls are again feel familiar, although everything is of course different with a 3D camera. You can move said camera, click rides and shops for management, and the coaster editor takes a LOT of getting used to. This thing is highly customizable and seems a lot like pulling taffy. You just move each piece up, down, left or right, and bank it left or right, and by doing so, you can make any coaster imaginable for that coaster type. It's incredibly elegant, but also a bit difficult to master...at least at first. I am getting better, and find that it is getting easier to build smoother and more realistic coasters; but it is still a bit difficult to do at times. But...that doesn't stop me from trying! The game is so well designed and executed that I can't stop playing, even in this Alpha stage!

# The Choice

If you're looking for a theme park sim, You can't really go wrong with either of these games. If you're looking for a cheaper, much more fully featured and modded alpha that gives you some great nostalgia, pick Parkitect. If you want to have a more realistic theme park sim experience, even in this alpha stage, then grab a copy of Planet Coaster. If you're not a crazy early adopter like me, you can wait a few months, as at least PC will be released around the holidays. Parkitect has no set release date, since they have a smaller team. However, their recent sales on Steam has offered them some much needed resources to continue development with additional team members. Hopefully you can see a release sometime soon! Last but not least, the prices at this time are as follows: ~$18 for Parkitect and $75 for alpha access of PC, with only $30 for pre-purchasing the game to play upon release.

This isn't the last you will hear about these games...I will soon have some pics on imgur and videos on youtube of each!

Some helpful links to learn more:

[Parkitect Reddit](www.reddit.com/r/themeparkitect)
[Planet Coaster Reddit](www.reddit.com/r/PlanetCoaster)